=jcobyla

<b>Constrained Optimization BY Linear Approximation in Java</b>

COBYLA2 is an implementation of Powell’s nonlinear derivative–free constrained optimization that uses a linear approximation approach. 
The algorithm is a sequential trust–region algorithm that employs linear approximations to the objective and constraint functions, 
where the approximations are formed by linear interpolation at n + 1 points in the space of the variables and tries to maintain a 
regular–shaped simplex over iterations.

It solves nonsmooth NLP with a moderate number of variables (about 100). Inequality constraints only.

The initial point X is taken as one vertex of the initial simplex with zero being another, so, X should not be entered as the zero vector.

==Links

* This is a Java version of Mike Powell's F77 implementation of COBYLA2, available at ftp://plato.la.asu.edu/pub/other_software/cobyla2.tar.gz
* The Java version is a straightforward translation of the C# port, available at https://github.com/cureos/cscobyla
* Mike Powell's paper on Direct Search methods is available at http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/na/NA_papers/NA1998_04.ps.gz

==Usage

The files _Cobyla.java_, _Calcfc.java_ and _CobylaExitStatus.java_ can be included in the package _com.cureos.numerics_ of any Java project.

The Java implementation is relatively faithful to the original Fortran 77 and 90 implementations. It should be noted however that the  
indexing of the variables and constraints arrays in the _public_ interface is zero-based, i.e. for a problem with 3 variables, x[0],
x[1] and x[2] should be employed in the objective and constraints function evaluations.

The objective function and (potentially) constraints functions computation should be is represented by the _Compute_ method in the _Calcfc_ interface. 
Implement the interface explicitly or anonymously. The _Compute_ method exhibits the following signature:

    double Compute(int n, int m, double[] x, double[] con)

where _n_ is the number of variables, _m_ is the number of constraints, _x_ is the variable array, and _con_ is the array of calculated constraints 
function values. The method should return the value of the objective function.

To minimize the objective function subject to constraints, call the static _Cobyla.FindMinimum_ methods:

    CobylaExitStatus FindMinimum(Calcfc calcfc, int n, int m, double[] x, 
                      double rhobeg, double rhoend, int iprint, int maxfun);

where _x_ on input is the initial variable array, _rhobeg_ and _rhoend_ are the initial and final values of the simplex, _iprint_ (0..3)
specifies the level of output to the console, and _maxfun_ is the maximum allowed number of function evaluations. On output _x_ is the 
optimal obtained variable values. The method returns final optimization status, which is one of normal termination, maximum iterations 
reached or diverging rounding errors.

==The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2012 Anders Gustafsson, Cureos AB.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files 
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, 
publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, 
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION 
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

==Revision history

* May 1, 2012: Initial document.
